MACOSX-UPS(8)
=============

NAME
----
macosx-ups - monitor for Mac OS X built-in UPS and battery driver

NOTE
----
This man page only documents the hardware-specific features of the
*macosx-ups* driver.  For information about the core driver, see
linkman:nutupsdrv[8].

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
------------------
*macosx-ups* supports any USB HID Power Device Class (PDC) UPS which is
matched by the Mac OS X built-in drivers. It also can monitor a laptop
internal battery as though it were an UPS.

If the UPS is visible in the Energy Saver preferences pane of System
Preferences, this driver should be able to monitor it.


EXTRA ARGUMENTS
----------------
*port*='regex'::
The *port* parameter in the configuration file can be a case-insensitive
extended regular expression (see *regex*(3) for details) to match against
specific UPS and battery names.
+
The traditional NUT auto-detection value of "auto" will be changed to "/UPS".
To test this driver against the internal battery of a laptop, a value such as
"battery" can be used.

*model*='regex'::
Likewise, if you have more than one UPS, it may be necessary to specify a
*model* name to match against. This parameter is also a case-insensitive
extended regular expression.

//////////////////////////////////////////
This driver also supports the following optional settings:

*option1*='num'::
Set the value of ... to 'num'. Contrast with *option2*.
 
*option2*='string'::
Some other option.
//////////////////////////////////////////

//////////////////////////////////////////
Optional: list supported instant commands here:

INSTANT COMMANDS
----------------

*instcmd1*::
Command 1.
//////////////////////////////////////////

DIAGNOSTICS
-----------

If the driver cannot find an UPS, first open System Preferences and see if
there is an "UPS" tab on the Energy Saver panel. If so, re-run the driver with
the *-D* flag to list the names of the power sources found.

KNOWN ISSUES AND BUGS
---------------------

This driver is a monitoring-only driver, and cannot shut down an UPS on its
own. However, this should not be a problem in practice: it is monitoring the
built-in Mac OS X UPS driver, which has configuration options for several
shutdown scenarios. Consult the Energy Saver control panel or *pmset*(8) for
more information.

The default distribution of *apcupsd* installs a kernel extension which
prevents Mac OS X from attaching to the UPS. In order to use this driver after
installing apcupsd, you must first run the `apcupsd-uninstall` script and
reboot.

Note that other UPS monitoring solutions may show more detail than what is
provided by the built-in Mac OS X driver. In particular, voltages other than
the battery voltage, as well as current and frequency, are typically not
shown. It may be possible to monitor these values with *apcupsd* (for APC
hardware only) or linkman:usbhid-ups[8].

AUTHORS
-------
Charles Lepple <clepple+nut at gmail.com>

SEE ALSO
--------

linkman:usbhid-ups[8], *pmset*(8), *regex*(3)

The core driver:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
linkman:nutupsdrv[8]

Internet resources:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/

The apcupsd home page: http://www.apcupsd.org/
